So in the last lecture we've done the content for the single blog post. Let's now add some more information about the blog post which
is the author's info. So in WordPress any user, So let's go to Users here. And then your profile. So any user
can type some information about himself here.
So let's type some.
And let's save. So let's now go to the single.php.
So after the contents we need to display here the author info.
So let's create a template part for that.
And you already know the benefits of adding this template part rather than just coding it here directly.
So let's go to template-parts. Let's create a new folder "single". And inside of single
let's create a new file author.php.
And now to import this file,
let's duplicate this "post" to "single" and then "author".
So this won't be hard.
You'll just use some functions to get the information about the author.
So let's open a new DIV
and I have a class called
"c-post-author". And let's add margin and let's add an H2 tag.
And inside of it let's add, let's open a PHP  tag and output and escaped and translated text. And let's type a
title "About The Author" and "_themename". But in my design
I don't really want to display this text.
This title will just help screen readers to know what this section is about.
So this is one more accessibility to appear. When screen readers browse your website
they can browse by titles, by H1 tags and H2 tags.
So when you create a new section in your website that you need screen readers to be able to navigate
to using the title. But you don't want to display the title in your website you can of course add a class
"u-screen-reader-text". And then we can carry on.
So let's open a PHP tag and let's define
some variables or actually a lot of variables.
So we need the author ID of this post and to get that we will call get_the_author_meta(). And this function
will retrieve any meta information that belongs to a user.
So in our case we need the ID.
So its called "ID". And we need the number of posts for this author. We'll display the number of posts.
So $author_posts. And there is a function for that.
Its called get_the_author_posts(). This will return
the number of posts. We also need the display name for the author.
So if you noticed when we were adding this information there is a "Display name as". So you can choose how
to display your name whether you need a first name or last name or a nickname.
So this what will be returned by the function that we will call now.
So let's add a variable $author_display. And let's call get_the_author(). You also need a link that will take
us to the archive for this author. So $author_posts_url.
And get_author_posts_url().
So this will return a link that will take you to the archive that will display the posts only for
this author.
But this function actually needs an ID. So lets give it the $author_id.
And finally, not finally we'll need the $author_description.
Which is the bio that we typed the dummy text.
So get_the_author_meta(). And this field is called "user_underscore_description".
And to know the names of the fields, let's go to this function.
And you'll have all the available fields for the get_author_meta function.
So let's carry on. We finally will need the website.
So let's $author_website.
And this will also be in the meta function
And it's "user_url".
So we now have all the information about the user.
We just have to display it.
So let's display the, we have an avatar here.
So let's display it. So "class" and I'm aware that this section is a bit boring but I have to do it.
And to get the avatar we will echo and then get_avatar(),
right?
And this needs the ID of the author.
So we already have that. And it takes a "size" also.
So the avatar will be square.
So the size will be the width and the height of the photo.
So just choose any number. And let's see now.
Now we have the avatar for this user.
So let's now add some more information. Lets add a new DIV and I'm gonna copy this. And instead of
"avatar"
"content"
So inside this content DIV we will display the title of the author or the name of the author and then the
number of posts and then number of posts will be a URL that would take him to his archive
the $author_posts_url. And then we will display his bio.
Right?
So let's start by the name. So let's copy
instead of typing the longer classes names.
And this will be the "title".
So let's open PHP and echo and make sure to escape HTML here. And we need the author display name.
We already have that.
So let's see now. And we have the name. But we also need this name to be a link that will take us to the
website of this user.
So let's add an anchor tag. And let's make this open in a new tab.
So "target="_blank"" and close it after the name. And in the "href"  this will be
the $author_website. But we also need to esc_url().
But what if the user don't have a website like this one.
We don't need to add an empty A tag. So let's first  go to a user like me that has a website.
And it's working fine but we now need to add a condition to only display this A
tag if the author website is available.
So let's open PHP.
And "if($author_website)"
display this opening tag.
And also we need to do the same for the closing tag.
So now this is not a URL.
And this is a URL. Great, let's now display the number of posts and I have a DIV class for
that called
instead of "title", "info". And we said that we need this to be in an A tag that will take him to the posts
URL or posts archive.
So "echo esc_url( $author_posts_url )". And then inside the A tag we'll have to display the number of posts.
So we have the numbers so let's open PHP.
And we need to display a string that will say, if the number of post is singular,
it will say "one post". If it's plural it will say "X posts". And this will also have to be escaped and translated.
So you already know how to do that.
Remember the lecture about internationalization when we mentioned a function called _n(). So
"_n()".
And this will take the singular string and the plural string.
But we need also a placeholder for the number, right?.
So "%s post" and "%s posts" and the "number" which is the $author_posts.
And our text domain.
So this function will output, _n() function will output the placeholder post
if the number is 1. Or the placeholder posts if the number is more than 1.
But this function is not escaped and we don't have like the other function, we don't have
esc_html_n().
We don't have that.
So we can just use esc_html() and wrap the _n() function with it.
So what we need to do now is we need to the output of this function will be the first argument in
the printf() in order to replace the placeholder.
So the second argument will be the number which we want to replace the placeholder with.
But when outputting any numbers you need to call a function called number_format_i18n,
internationalization.
And give it the number which would be the $author_posts. And this function will just convert the number to
the format of the language.
So for example in some languages if you have 1000 you will have to format the 1000 to
1,000.
So this function will check if the current language and format the number according to this language.
So let's save and see this. And as you can see we have the number of posts and if you click on it it will
take us to the archive page where we will have the posts just for this author.
Let's finally do the bio. So let's copy one of these and this will be called "description" or "desc".
And let's open PHP and just echo
and esc_html().
And the $author_description. So this one doesn't have a bio
but as you can see we now have the bio
if the user has one. So great, as I told you I know this section is a bit boring so let's in the next lecture
do something a little bit more interesting.
Let's go back to the Customizer and add an option and this option will decide whether to display the
author info in the single blog page or not.
So we will do some things we have not done in the Customizer before. We'll use a checkbox and we also
use another feature that you will see in the next lecture.